README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/kangwonlee/gemini-python-tutor/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kangwonlee/gemini-python-tutor/actions)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/kangwonlee/gemini-python-tutor.svg)](https://github.com/kangwonlee/gemini-python-tutor/releases)

# AI Python Code Tutor (Gemini)

This action analyzes test results and code to provide personalized feedback on student assignments, including identifying errors, suggesting improvements, and explaining concepts.

The AI tutor can identify logic errors, suggest more efficient algorithms, explain complex concepts in simpler terms, and even provide links to relevant documentation.

It would save instructors' time, provide more consistent feedback, and help students learn more effectively regardless of time & location.

## Prerequisites

Before using this action, ensure you have the following:

* **pytest-json-report plugin:** This plugin is required to generate the JSON test reports that the action uses for analysis.
    * You can install it using pip:
      ```bash
      pip install pytest-json-report
      ```
    * To generate the JSON report, run the following command:
      ```bash
      python -m pytest --json-report --json-report-file=report.json tests/test_my_test_file.py
      ```
    * For more information on the plugin, see the [pytest-json-report documentation](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-json-report/).

## Key Features

* Provide feedback on Python code assignments.
* Support multiple JSON files by pytest-json-report plugin.
* Support multiple student files.

# Usage
* Please set `GOOGLE_API_KEY` in the repository's secrets.

* To use the action, create a workflow file (e.g., `.github/workflows/classroom.yml`) in your repository and add the following configuration:

``` yaml
on: [push]

jobs:
  grade:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Install dependencies
        run: pip install pytest pytest-json-report
      - name: Run tests
        run: |
          python -m pytest --json-report --json-report-file=report.json tests/test_my_test_file.py
      - name: AI Python Tutor
        uses: kangwonlee/gemini-python-tutor@v0.1.1
        if: always()
        with:
          report-files: report.json
          api-key: ${{ secrets.GOOGLE_API_KEY }}
          student-files: exercise.py
          readme-path: README.md
          explanation-in: English
        timeout-minutes: 5 

```
* This action analyzes the JSON output generated by the `pytest-json-report` plugin to understand the test results of your Python code and provide AI-powered feedback. 

## Inputs
* `report-files`: Comma-separated list of JSON report files generated by pytest-json-report. (Required)
* `api-key`: Your Google API key. (Required)
* `student-files`: Comma-separated list of Python files containing the student's code for review. (Required)
* `readme-path`: Path to the assignment instructions (README.md). (Optional)
* `explanation-in`: Language for explanations (e.g., English, Korean). (Optional, default: English)

### Example with multiple JSON files and student files
``` yaml
with:
  report-files: 'report1.json, report2.json, reports/*.json'
  api-key: ${{ secrets.GOOGLE_API_KEY }}
  student-files: 'exercise1.py, exercise2.py' 
  readme-path: README.md
  explanation-in: English
```

## Limitations
* The action currently supports Korean only.
* The action currently supports only Python code assignments.
* The action requires the `pytest-json-report` plugin to generate JSON test reports.

## Future Work
* Support multiple human languages.
    * Add language argument
    * Add language detection

* Add AI model choice argument to select different AI models.
    * Gemini advance
    * Gemini basic

* Support more programming languages.
    * Possibly in a different repository

* Feedback on code passing all tests.
    * Possible further analysis on the code.
    * Provide suggestions for further improvements.

* Add `verbose` argument to provide more detailed feedback.
    * More internal details

## Troubleshooting

* If you encounter any issues, please check the action logs for more information.
    * To view the logs, go to the Actions tab of your repository, click on the workflow run, and then select the "AI Python Tutor" job. You'll find the logs for each step in the job.

### Common Errors:

* **API Key Errors:**
    * "Invalid API key": Double-check your API key in the repository secrets and the workflow file.
    * "API key not found": Make sure you have set the `GOOGLE_API_KEY` in your repository secrets.
* **Report File Errors:**
    * "Report file not found": Ensure the JSON report is generated using `pytest-json-report` and placed in the correct location (e.g., `report.json` in the root of your repository).
    * "Invalid report format": Use the `pytest-json-report` plugin with the recommended options to generate a valid report.
* **Student File Errors:**
    * "Student file not found":  Make sure the student's code file is in the correct location and has a `.py` extension.
* **Timeout Errors:**
    * "Action timed out":  Increase the `timeout-minutes` value in your workflow file or optimize your code.

### Debugging Suggestions:

* **Check Action Logs:**  View the action logs in the GitHub Actions interface for detailed error messages.
* **Test Locally:** Use `act` to run the action locally and debug your workflow.

## Contact
* If you have any questions or feedback, please contact the author : https://github.com/kangwonlee.

## Acknowledgements

This project is based on the [python-github-action-template](https://github.com/cicirello/python-github-action-template) by Vincent A. Cicirello, licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

revise license to Do Not Harm

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/kangwonlee/gemini-python-tutor/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kangwonlee/gemini-python-tutor/actions)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/kangwonlee/gemini-python-tutor.svg)](https://github.com/kangwonlee/gemini-python-tutor/releases)

# AI Python Code Tutor (Gemini)

This action analyzes test results and code to provide personalized feedback on student assignments, including identifying errors, suggesting improvements, and explaining concepts.

The AI tutor can identify logic errors, suggest more efficient algorithms, explain complex concepts in simpler terms, and even provide links to relevant documentation.

It would save instructors' time, provide more consistent feedback, and help students learn more effectively regardless of time & location.

## Prerequisites

Before using this action, ensure you have the following:

* **pytest-json-report plugin:** This plugin is required to generate the JSON test reports that the action uses for analysis.
    * You can install it using pip:
      ```bash
      pip install pytest-json-report
      ```
    * To generate the JSON report, run the following command:
      ```bash
      python -m pytest --json-report --json-report-file=report.json tests/test_my_test_file.py
      ```
    * For more information on the plugin, see the [pytest-json-report documentation](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-json-report/).

## Key Features

* Provide feedback on Python code assignments.
* Support multiple JSON files by pytest-json-report plugin.
* Support multiple student files.

# Usage
* Please set `GOOGLE_API_KEY` in the repository's secrets.

* To use the action, create a workflow file (e.g., `.github/workflows/classroom.yml`) in your repository and add the following configuration:

``` yaml
on: [push]

jobs:
  grade:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Install dependencies
        run: pip install pytest pytest-json-report
      - name: Run tests
        run: |
          python -m pytest --json-report --json-report-file=report.json tests/test_my_test_file.py
      - name: AI Python Tutor
        uses: kangwonlee/gemini-python-tutor@v0.1.1
        if: always()
        with:
          report-files: report.json
          api-key: ${{ secrets.GOOGLE_API_KEY }}
          student-files: exercise.py
          readme-path: README.md
          explanation-in: English
        timeout-minutes: 5 

```
* This action analyzes the JSON output generated by the `pytest-json-report` plugin to understand the test results of your Python code and provide AI-powered feedback. 

## Inputs
* `report-files`: Comma-separated list of JSON report files generated by pytest-json-report. (Required)
* `api-key`: Your Google API key. (Required)
* `student-files`: Comma-separated list of Python files containing the student's code for review. (Required)
* `readme-path`: Path to the assignment instructions (README.md). (Optional)
* `explanation-in`: Language for explanations (e.g., English, Korean). (Optional, default: English)

### Example with multiple JSON files and student files
``` yaml
with:
  report-files: 'report1.json, report2.json, reports/*.json'
  api-key: ${{ secrets.GOOGLE_API_KEY }}
  student-files: 'exercise1.py, exercise2.py' 
  readme-path: README.md
  explanation-in: English
```

## Limitations
* The action currently supports Korean only.
* The action currently supports only Python code assignments.
* The action requires the `pytest-json-report` plugin to generate JSON test reports.

## Future Work
* Support multiple human languages.
    * Add language argument
    * Add language detection

* Add AI model choice argument to select different AI models.
    * Gemini advance
    * Gemini basic

* Support more programming languages.
    * Possibly in a different repository

* Feedback on code passing all tests.
    * Possible further analysis on the code.
    * Provide suggestions for further improvements.

* Add `verbose` argument to provide more detailed feedback.
    * More internal details

## Troubleshooting

* If you encounter any issues, please check the action logs for more information.
    * To view the logs, go to the Actions tab of your repository, click on the workflow run, and then select the "AI Python Tutor" job. You'll find the logs for each step in the job.

### Common Errors:

* **API Key Errors:**
    * "Invalid API key": Double-check your API key in the repository secrets and the workflow file.
    * "API key not found": Make sure you have set the `GOOGLE_API_KEY` in your repository secrets.
* **Report File Errors:**
    * "Report file not found": Ensure the JSON report is generated using `pytest-json-report` and placed in the correct location (e.g., `report.json` in the root of your repository).
    * "Invalid report format": Use the `pytest-json-report` plugin with the recommended options to generate a valid report.
* **Student File Errors:**
    * "Student file not found":  Make sure the student's code file is in the correct location and has a `.py` extension.
* **Timeout Errors:**
    * "Action timed out":  Increase the `timeout-minutes` value in your workflow file or optimize your code.

### Debugging Suggestions:

* **Check Action Logs:**  View the action logs in the GitHub Actions interface for detailed error messages.
* **Test Locally:** Use `act` to run the action locally and debug your workflow.

## Contact
* If you have any questions or feedback, please contact the author : https://github.com/kangwonlee.

## License

This project is licensed under the BSD 3-Clause License + Do No Harm.

Copyright (c) 2024 Kangwon Lee

## Acknowledgements

This project is based on the [python-github-action-template](https://github.com/cicirello/python-github-action-template) by Vincent A. Cicirello, licensed under the MIT License.
